---
title: Getting Started With Local Kubernetes Cluster
description: This chapter contains guides on how to get started with Gefyra and different local Kubernetes solutions. These guides are for a single user on a local machine.
navigation:
  title: Getting Started
  icon: i-lucide-rocket
---

## Workflow for single users
This workflow with Gefyra is an shortcut for local connections: `gefyra up` takes care of creating a *default* [Gefyra Client](/en/shared-environments/clients), generating the connection configuration and setting up the connection to the cluster.

TODO: flowchart support

```mermaid
flowchart TD;
    install["Install Gefyra (<a href='/docs/cli#up'>gefyra up</a>)"]
    run["Run workload (<a href='/docs/cli#run'>gefyra run</a>)"]
    bridge["Bridge a container workload (<a href='/docs/cli#bridge'>gefyra bridge</a>) into the cluster"]
    unbridge["Unbridge a container workload (<a href='/docs/cli#bridge'>gefyra unbridge</a>) from the cluster"]
    down["Remove Gefyra (<a href='/docs/cli#down'>gefyra down</a>)"]

    install-->run
    run-->bridge
    bridge-->unbridge
    run-->down
    bridge-->down
    unbridge-->down

```

## Local Kubernetes providers

Follow along these guides to connect Gefyra with your preferred Kubernetes provider.

:::card-group
  ::card
  ---
  title: Colima Kubernetes
  icon: i-simple-icons-kubernetes
  to: /en/local-environments/colima
  ---
  This guide will show you how to use Gefyra for the local development of a Kubernetes application running in Colima Kubernetes.
  ::

  ::card
  ---
  title: Docker Desktop Extension (OSX)
  icon: i-simple-icons-docker
  to: /en/local-environments/docker-desktop-extension
  ---
  This example is really similar to the k3d getting started guide.
  ::

  ::card
  ---
  title: k3d
  to: /en/local-environments/k3d
  ---
  This guide will show you how to use Gefyra for the local development of a Kubernetes application running in k3d.
  ::

  ::card
  ---
  title: kind
  to: /en/local-environments/kind
  ---
  This guide will show you how to use Gefyra for the local development of a Kubernetes application running in kind.
  ::

  ::card
  ---
  title: Minikube
  icon: i-simple-icons-kubernetes
  to: /en/local-environments/minikube
  ---
  Please refer to the general getting started guide for Gefyra as this is about Minikube, too.
  ::
:::

Hey! We would be very happy to know about your Kubernetes development setup. If you can't find your distribuition in this
list, please request a guide by creating [a GitHub issue using this template](https://github.com/gefyrahq/gefyra/issues/new?assignees=&labels=enhancement&template=guide-request.md&title=%5BGuide+request%5D%3A+){target="_blank"}.  
It's that simple and very helpful.